The GEDCOM Standard                                                            7.0.0-rc1



         ◦ not beginning with / (U+002F)
         ◦ not containing any path segments equal to .. (U+002E U+002E)
         ◦ not containing a reverse solidus character (U+005C \ ) or banned (p.7)
           character, either directly or in escaped form
         ◦ no query or fragment

      refers to a local file. If the GEDCOM document is part of a GEDZIP (p.85), the
      URL of the local file is a zip archive filename; otherwise, the URL of a local
      file is resolved with base equal to the directory containing the GEDCOM file.

  The meaning of a FILE (p.64) payload with any URL format not listed above is un‐
  defined in GEDCOM 7.0, but may be defined in subsequent versions of GEDCOM.

  FORM (Format)
  The media type of the file referenced by the superstructure. This should be a
  valid media type as defined by IETC BCP 13. A registry of media types is main‐
  tained publicly by the IANA.

  The FORM tag is also used in a context-defined way for two other structures:

  HEAD . PLAC . FORM (Default place format)
  Any PLAC (p.71) with no FORM shall be treated as if it has this FORM .

  PLAC . FORM (Place format)
  A comma-separated list of jurisdictional titles, which has the same number of
  elements and in the same order as the PLAC structure. Entries should be in an
  order where each is typically subsumed by the next.

      Example — The following represents Baltimore, a city that is not within a
      county.

      2 PLAC Baltimore, , Maryland, USA
      3 FORM City, County, State, Country


  GEDC (Gedcom)
  A container for information about the entire document.

  It is recommended that applications write GEDC with its required subrecord
  VERS (p.78) as the first substructure under HEAD .

  GIVN (Given name)
  A given or earned name used for official identification of a person.



                                       Page 65 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                             7.0.0-rc1




  HEAD (Header)
  A pseudo-structure for storing metadata about the document. See The Header
  and Trailer (p.13) for more.

  HEIGHT
  How many pixels to display vertically for the image. See CROP (p.60) for more.

      Note — HEIGHT is a number of pixels. The correct tag for the height of an
      individual is the DSCR (p.54) attribute.

         Example —
          0 @I45@ INDI
          1 DSCR brown eyes, 5ft 10in, 198 pounds


  HUSB (Husband)
  A container for information relevant to the subject of the superstructure specif‐
  ic to the individual described by the associated FAM (p.63)’s HUSB substructure.

  The HUSB tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  FAM . HUSB
  This is a partner in a FAM record. See FAMILY_RECORD (p.30) for more.

  INDI (Individual)
  See INDIVIDUAL_RECORD (p.32).

  LANG (Language)
  The human language of the superstructure. In the header, this provides the de‐
  fault language for the entire document. In a SUBMITTER_RECORD (p.37), it provides
  a language the subject of that record understands. Elsewhere it provides the
  language in which the Text -typed payloads of superstructure and its substruc‐
  tures appears.

  The payload of LANG structure is a language tag, as defined by IETF BCP 47. A
  registry of component subtags is maintained publicly by the IANA.




                                     Page 66 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                          7.0.0-rc1




  LATI (Latitude)
  A latitudinal coordinate. The payload is either N (for a coordinate north of the
  equator) or S (for a coordinate south of the equator) followed by a decimal
  number of degrees. Minutes and seconds are not used and should be converted
  to fractional degrees prior to encoding.

      Example — 18 degrees, 9 minutes, and 3.4 seconds North would be
      formatted as N18.150944 .

  LEFT
  Left is a number of pixels to not display from the left side of the image. See
  CROP (p.60) for more.

  LONG (Longitude)
  A longitudinal coordinate. The payload is either E (for a coordinate east of the
  prime meridian) or W (for a coordinate west of the prime meridian) followed
  by a decimal number of degrees. Minutes and seconds are not used and should
  be converted to fractional degrees prior to encoding.

      Example — 168 degrees, 9 minutes, and 3.4 seconds East would be
      formatted as E168.150944 .

  MAP (Map)
  A representative point for a location, as defined by LATI (p.67) and LONG sub‐
  structures.

  Note that MAP provides neither a notion of accuracy (for example, the MAP for a
  birth event may be some distance from the point where the birth occurred) nor
  a notion of region size (for example, the MAP for a place “Belarus” may be any‐
  where within that nation’s 200,000 square kilometer area).

  MEDI (Medium)
  An enumerated value (p.79) providing information about the media or the medi‐
  um in which information is stored.

  MIME (Media type)
  Indicates the media type of the payload of the superstructure, as defined by
  IETC BCP 13.




                                    Page 67 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                             7.0.0-rc1




  Only 2 media types are supported by this structure in this version of GEDCOM:

     • text/plain shall be presented to the user as-is, preserving all spacing, line
       breaks, and so forth.

     • text/html uses HTML tags to provide presentation information. Applica‐
       tions should support at least the following:

         ◦ p and br elements for paragraphing and line breaks.
         ◦ b , i , and u elements for bold, italic, and underlined text (or
           corresponding display in other locales; see HTML §4.5 for more).
         ◦ sup and sub elements for super- and sub-script.
         ◦ The 3 XML entities that appear in text: &amp; , &lt; &gt; . Note that
           &quote; and &apos; are only needed in attributes. Other entities
           should be represented as their respective Unicode characters instead.

      Supporting more of HTML is encouraged. Unsupported elements should be
      ignored during display.

      Note — Media types are also used by external files, as described under
      FORM (p.65) . External file media types are not limited to text/plain and
      text/html .

  NAME
  The name of the superstructure’s subject, represented as a simple string.

  The NAME tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  INDI . NAME
  A PERSONAL_NAME_STRUCTURE (p.48) with parts, translations, sources, and so forth.

  NICK (Nickname)
  A descriptive or familiar name that is used instead of, or in addition to, one’s
  proper name. Should only be used when a nickname is commonly written as
  part of a full name; for stand-alone nicknames, a separate NAME with
  TYPE NICK is more appropriate.

  NO (Did not happen)
  Identifies an event type which did not occur to the superstructure’s subject. See
  NON_EVENT_STRUCTURE (p.46) for more.

  The payload is a single event-type tag name. See Events (p.51).




                                      Page 68 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                             7.0.0-rc1




  NOTE
  A NOTE_STRUCTURE (p.47), containing additional information provided by the sub‐
  mitter for understanding the enclosing data.

  The NOTE tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  CHAN . NOTE
  Optional notes about the change made to the superstructure. May be describe
  previous changes as well as the most recent, although only the most recent is
  described by the CHAN . DATE .

  NPFX (Name prefix)
  Text which appears on a name line before the given and surname parts of a
  name.

  NSFX (Name suffix)
  Text which appears on a name line after or behind the given and surname parts
  of a name.

  OBJE (Object)
  An external file containing information pertinent to the subject of the super‐
  structure if a substructure, or a description of such a file if a record. See
  MULTIMEDIA_RECORD (p.33) and MULTIMEDIA_LINK (p.46) for more.

  PAGE (Page)
  A specific location within the information referenced. For a published work,
  this could include the volume of a multi-volume work and the page number or
  numbers. For a periodical, it could include volume, issue, and page numbers.
  For a newspaper, it could include a date, page number, and column number. For
  an unpublished source or microfilmed works, this could be a film or sheet num‐
  ber, page number, or frame number. A census record might have an enumerat‐
  ing district, page number, line number, dwelling number, and family number.

  It is recommended that the data in this field be formatted comma-separated
  with label: value pairs

      Example —
      2 SOUR @S1@
      3 PAGE Film: 1234567, Frame: 344, Line: 28



                                     Page 69 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                           7.0.0-rc1




  PEDI (Pedigree)
  An enumerated value (p.80) indicating the type of child-to-family relationship
  represented by the superstructure.

  PHON (Phone)
  A telephone number. Telephone numbers have many regional variations and
  may contain non-digit characters. Users should be encouraged to use interna‐
  tionalized telephone numbers rather than local versions. As a starting point for
  this recommendation, there are international standards that use a ‘+’ shorthand
  for the international prefix (for example, in place of 011 in the US or 00 in the
  UK). Examples are +1 (555) 555-1234 (US) or +44 20 1234 1234 (UK).
  See ITU standards E.123 and E.164 for more information.

  PHRASE
  Textual information that cannot be expressed in the superstructure due to the
  limitations of its datatype.

      Example — A date interpreted from the phrase “The Feast of St John”
      might be

      2 DATE 24 JUNE 1852
      3 PHRASE During the feast of St John

      Example — A record using 1648/9 to indicate a change in new year
      might become

      2 DATE 30 JAN 1649
      3 PHRASE 30th of January, 1648/9

      Example — A record using 1648/9 to indicate uncertainty in the year
      might become

      2 DATE BET 1648 AND 1649
      3 PHRASE 1648/9

      Example — A record using Q1 1867 to indicate an event occurred some‐
      time within the first quarter of 1867 might become

      2 DATE BET 1 JAN 1867 AND 31 MAR 1867
      3 PHRASE Q1 1867


                                     Page 70 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                             7.0.0-rc1




      Example — A record defining the Maid of Honor in a marriage might be‐
      come

      1 MARR
      2 ASSO @I2@
      3 ROLE OTHER
      4 PHRASE Maid of Honor

      Example — A name given to a foundling orphan might be

      1 NAME Mary //
      2 GIVN Mary
      2 TYPE OTHER
      3 PHRASE given by orphanage


  PLAC (Place)
  The principle place in which the superstructure’s subject occurred.

  The PLAC tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  HEAD . PLAC
  This is a placeholder for providing a default PLAC . FORM , and must not have a
  payload.

  POST (Postal code)
  A code used by a postal service to identify an area to facilitate mail handling.
  See ADDRESS_STRUCTURE (p.37) for more.

  PUBL (Publication)
  When and where the record was created. For published works, this includes in‐
  formation such as the city of publication, name of the publisher, and year of
  publication.

  For an unpublished work, it includes the date the record was created and the
  place where it was created. For example, the county and state of residence of a
  person making a declaration for a pension or the city and state of residence of
  the writer of a letter.




                                     Page 71 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                                7.0.0-rc1




  QUAY (Quality of data)
  An enumerated value (p.80) indicating the credibility of a piece of information,
  based on its supporting evidence. Some systems use this feature to rank mul‐
  tiple conflicting opinions for display of most likely information first. It is not in‐
  tended to eliminate the receivers’ need to evaluate the evidence for them‐
  selves.

  REFN (Reference)
  A user-defined number or text that the submitter uses to identify the super‐
  structure. For instance, it may be a record number within the submitter’s auto‐
  mated or manual system, or it may be a page and position number on a pedi‐
  gree chart.

  This is metadata about the structure itself, not data about its subject. Multiple
  structures describing different aspects of the same subject would have differ‐
  ent REFN values.

  REPO (Repository)
  For a record, see REPOSITORY_RECORD (p.34) . For              a substructure, see
  SOURCE_REPOSITORY_CITATION (p.51).

  RESN (Restriction)
  An List (p.23) of enumerated value (p.81) s signifying access to information may be
  denied or otherwise restricted.
  The RESN structure is provided to assist software in filtering data that should
  not be exported or otherwise used in a particular context. It is recommended
  that tools provide an interface to allow users to filter data on export such that
  certain RESN structure payload entries result in the RESN structure and its su‐
  perstructure being removed from the export. Such removal must not violate
  GEDCOM constraints: see Removing data (p.18) for more.

  This is metadata about the structure itself, not data about its subject.

  ROLE (Role)
  An enumerated value (p.81) indicating what role this person played in an event
  or person’s life.




                                       Page 72 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                               7.0.0-rc1




      Example — The following indicates a child’s birth record as the source of
      the mother’s name:

      0 @I1@ INDI
      1 NAME Mary //
      2 SOUR @S1@
      3 EVEN BIRT
      4 ROLE MOTH

      Example — The following indicates that a person’s best friend was a wit‐
      ness at their baptism:

      0 @I2@ INDI
      1 ASSO @I3@
      2 ROLE FRIEND
      3 PHRASE best friend
      1 BAPM
      2 ASSO @I3@
      3 ROLE WITN


  SCHMA (Extension schema)
  A container for storing meta-information about the extension tags used in this
  document. See Extensions (p.13) for more.

  SDATE (Sort date)
  A date to be used as a sorting hint. It is intended for use when the actual date is
  unknown, but the display order may be dependent on date.

  If both a DATE (p.61) and SDATE are present in the same structure, the SDATE
  should be used for sorting and positioning while the DATE should be displayed
  as the date of the structure.

  SEX (Sex)
  An enumerated value (p.82) that indicates the sex of the individual at birth.

  SNOTE (Shared Note)
  A note that is shared by multiple structures (if a record) or a pointer to such a
  note (if a substructure). See SHARED_NOTE_RECORD (p.34) and NOTE_STRUCTURE (p.
  47) for more.




                                      Page 73 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                              7.0.0-rc1




  SOUR (Source)
  A description of an entire source (if a record) or the relevant part thereof to
  support the containing data (if a substructure). See SOURCE_RECORD (p.36) and
  SOURCE_CITATION (p.50) for more.

  The SOUR tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  HEAD . SOUR (Source System)
  An identifier for the product producing this GEDCOM document. A registration
  process for these identifiers existed for a time, but no longer does. If an existing
  identifier is known, it should be used. Otherwise, a URI owned by the product
  should be used instead.

  SPFX (Surname prefix)
  A name piece used as a non-indexing pre-part of a surname.

  SURN (Surname)
  A family name passed on or used by members of a family.

  STAE (State)
  A geographical division of a larger jurisdictional area, such as a State within the
  United States of America. See ADDRESS_STRUCTURE (p.37) for more.

  STAT (Status)
  An enumerated value assessing of the state or condition of something. Expected
  values differ by context; see FAMC . STAT (p.82) and (Latter-Day Saint Ordin‐
  ance). STAT (p.83) for more.

  SUBM (Submitter)
  A contributor of information in the substructure, or a description of such a con‐
  tributor if a record. As a substructure, this is metadata about the structure it‐
  self, not data about its subject. See SUBMITTER_RECORD (p.37) for more.

  TAG (Extension tag)
  Information relating to a single extension tag as used in this document. See Ex‐
  tensions (p.13) for more.




                                      Page 74 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                              7.0.0-rc1




  TEMP (Temple)
  The name of a temple of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Previ‐
  ous editions of GEDCOM recommended using a set of abbreviations for temple
  names, but the list of abbreviations is no longer published by the Church and
  using abbreviations is no longer recommended.

  TEXT (Text from Source)
  A verbatim copy of any description contained within the source. This indicates
  notes or text that are actually contained in the source document, not the sub‐
  mitter’s opinion about the source. This should be, from the evidence point of
  view, “what the original record keeper said” as opposed to the researcher’s in‐
  terpretation.

  TIME (Time)
  A time value in a 24-hour clock format.

  TITL (Title)
  The title, formal or informal, of the superstructure.

  A published work, such as a book, might have a title plus the title of the series of
  which the book is a part. A magazine article would have a title plus the title of
  the magazine that published the article.

  For an unpublished work, including most digital files, titles should be descript‐
  ive and appropriate to the work.

      Example —

         • The TITL of a letter might include the date, the sender, and the
           receiver.
         • The TITL of a transaction between a buyer and seller might have
           their names and the transaction date.
         • The TITL of a family Bible containing genealogical information
           might have past and present owners and a physical description of
           the book.
         • The TITL of a personal interview would cite the informant and
           interviewer.

  The TITL tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:




                                      Page 75 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                            7.0.0-rc1




  INDI . TITL
  An Individual Attribute (p.54)

  TOP
  A number of pixels to not display from the top side of the image. See CROP (p.60)
  for more.

  TRLR (Trailer)
  A pseudo-structure marking the end of a GEDCOM document. See The Header
  and Trailer (p.13) for more.

  TRAN (Translation or transliteration)
  A translation or transliteration of the superstructure. It presents information in
  the same format as the superstructure, but with a different language tag. See
  PLACE_STRUCTURE (p.49) , PERSONAL_NAME_STRUCTURE (p.48) , and LANG (p.66) for
  more.

  TYPE
  A descriptive word or phrase used to further classify the superstructure.

  When both a NOTE (p.69) and free-text TYPE are permitted as substructures of
  the same structure, the displaying systems should always display the TYPE
  value when they display the data from the associated structure; NOTE will typ‐
  ically be visible only in a detailed view.
  TYPE must be used whenever the generic EVEN (p.62) , FACT (p.64) and IDNO (p.54)
  tags are used. It may also be used for any other event or attribute.

  Using the subordinate TYPE classification method provides a further classifica‐
  tion of the superstructure but does not change its basic meaning.




                                     Page 76 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                            7.0.0-rc1




      Example — A MARR (p.53) with a TYPE could clarify what kind of marriage
      was performed:

      0 @I1@ INDI
      1 MARR
      2 TYPE Common Law

      This classifies the entry as a common law marriage but the event is still a
      marriage event.

      Other descriptor values might include, for example,

         • “Stillborn” as a qualifier to BIRT (p.52) (birth)
         • “Tribal Custom” as a qualifier to MARR (marriage)
         • “College” as a qualifier to GRAD (graduation)

      See also FACT (p.64) and EVEN (p.62) for additional examples.

  The TYPE tag is also used in a context-defined way for two other structures:

  NAME . TYPE
  An enumerated value (p.83) indicating the type of the name thereof.

  EXID . TYPE
  The authority issuing the EXID (p.63) , represented as a URI. It is recommended
  that this be a URL.

  If the authority maintains stable URLs for each identifier it issues, it is recom‐
  mended that the TYPE payload be selected such that appending the EXID pay‐
  load to it yields that URL. However, this is not required and a different URI for
  the set of issued identifiers may be used instead.

  UID (Unique Identifier)
  A globally-unique identifier of the superstructure, to be preserved across edits.
  If a globally-unique identifier for the record already exists, it should be used
  without modification, not even whitespace or letter case normalization. New
  globally unique identifiers should be created and formatted as described in RFC
  4122.

  This is metadata about the structure itself, not data about its subject. Multiple
  structures describing different aspects of the same subject would have differ‐
  ent UID values.




                                       Page 77 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                             7.0.0-rc1




      Note — Some systems used a 16-byte UUID with a custom 2-byte check‐
      sum for a total of 18 bytes:

         • checksum byte 1 = (sum of (bytei) for i 1 through 16) mod 256
         • checksum byte 2 = (sum of ((16 − i) × (bytei)) for i 1 through 16) mod
          256

      Use of checksums for UIDs is discouraged except in cases where error-
      prone input is expected and an appropriate action to take in case of an
      error is known.

  VERS (Version)
  An identifier that represents the version level assigned to the associated
  product. It is defined and changed by the creators of the product.

  The VERS tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  GEDC . VERS
  The official GEDCOM standard version number. See A Guide to Version Numbers
  (p.5) for more.


  WIDTH
  How many pixels to display horizontally for the image. See CROP (p.60) for more.

  WIFE
  A container for information relevant to the subject of the superstructure specif‐
  ic to the individual described by the associated FAM (p.63)’s WIFE substructure.

  The WIFE tag is also used in a context-defined way for one other structure:

  FAM . WIFE
  A partner in a FAM record. See FAMILY_RECORD (p.30) for more.

  WWW (Web address)
  A URL or other locator for a World Wide Web page, as defined by any relevant
  standard such as whatwg/url, RFC 3986, RFC 3987, and so forth.

  If an invalid web address is present upon import, it should be preserved as-is
  on export.




                                      Page 78 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                          7.0.0-rc1




  3.4. Enumeration Values
  FAMC . ADOP
    Value      Meaning
    HUSB       Adopted by the HUSB of the FAM pointed to by FAMC
    WIFE       Adopted by the WIFE of the FAM pointed to by FAMC
    BOTH       Adopted by both HUSB and WIFE of the FAM pointed to by FAMC


  DATA . EVEN
  A comma-separated list of event- and attribute-type tag names. See Events (p.51)
  and Attributes (p.54).


  SOUR . EVEN
  An event-type tag name. See Events (p.51) and SOUR.EVEN (p.63).


  MEDI
    Value             Meaning
    AUDIO             An audio recording
    BOOK              A bound book
    CARD              A card or file entry
    ELECTRONIC        A digital artifact
    FICHE             Microfiche
    FILM              Microfilm
    MAGAZINE          Printed periodical
    MANUSCRIPT        Written pages
    MAP               Cartographic map
    NEWSPAPER         Printed newspaper
    PHOTO             Photograph
    TOMBSTONE         Burial marker or related memorial



                                       Page 79 of 92
The GEDCOM Standard                                                                7.0.0-rc1




    Value             Meaning
    VIDEO             Motion picture recording
    OTHER             A medium not listed here; should have a PHRASE
                      substructure


  PEDI
    Value         Meaning
    ADOPTED       adoptive parents.
    BIRTH         birth parents.
    FOSTER        the child was included in a foster or guardian family.
    SEALING       the child was sealed to parents other than birth parents.
    OTHER         A connection not listed here; should have a PHRASE
                  substructure

      Note — The structures for foster children in particular, and family rela‐
      tionships in general, are known to have undesirable limitations and are
      likely to change in a future version of GEDCOM.


  NO
  A single event- or attribute-type tag name. See Events (p.51) and Attributes (p.54).


  QUAY
    Value      Meaning
    0          Unreliable evidence or estimated data
    1          Questionable reliability of evidence (interviews, census, oral
               genealogies, or potential for bias, such as an autobiography)
    2          Secondary evidence, data officially recorded sometime after the
               event
    3          Direct and primary evidence used, or by dominance of the
               evidence

  Although the values look like integers, they do not have numeric meaning.




                                       Page 80 of 92
